His first memory of Kuechly actually was as a teammate with his son, Marcus Lewis, on a summer lacrosse team. Lewis later met with Kuechly before the 2012 draft process began at the request of Bengals owner Mike Brown.

Lewis shared that story with his staff on Wednesday.

"I told him he was the best collegiate linebacker I'd seen at that point," Lewis said of Kuechly, then at Boston College. "He hasn't disappointed me."

Lewis never got a shot at drafting Kuechly, whose 839 tackles are 57 more than any player in the NFL since 2012. The Bengals had the No. 17 pick but Carolina got the 2011 Lombardi Award winner at No. 9.

Now coach Ron Rivera compares Kuechly to some of the greatest middle linebackers of all time, such as Hall of Famers Brian Urlacher and Mike Singletary.

Lewis wouldn't dispute that.

"All he's done is taken his athleticism and brought it to football," Lewis said of Kuechly, who played lacrosse just so he could do something physical during a down time from football. "We're trying to clone guys like Luke Kuechly here."

Good, bad and ugly
Rivera summed up the run defense in the 31-24 loss to Atlanta in one word: "terrible."

But even as things were going haywire in terms of gap control and discipline, defensive coordinator Eric Washington praised Kuechly.

"He was a guy that kept trying to keep everybody together, communicating with the coaches, myself, talking to the secondary and making sure we did everything we could to limit the damage and put ourselves in position to win the football game," Washington said.

Best of NFL Nation

• Hot starts: Mahomes and Fitzpatrick
• Marvin Lewis has high praise for Kuechly
• Hopkins vs. OBJ: Elite playmakers
• Smith-Schuster has new manager: His mom
• Belichick has edge in matchups with pupils

Kuechly had eight tackles, two for losses, against Atlanta to officially bring his season total to 21 -- fourth best in the league. The Panthers, after reviewing film, tacked two more on to that total.

The 27-year-old's success is a combination of athleticism, awareness and film study. Few, if any, in the league study more, as Jennings noted.

"He understands [the game] better than anybody I've ever been around," Rivera said. "Luke's understanding is phenomenal."

Kuechly was so focused on football and athletics in general growing up that he was too busy to attend Bengals' games. When he wasn't involved in sports, he was hunting and fishing with his dad and two brothers.

His dad, Tom, told ESPN.com in 2014 before the Panthers played at Cincinnati that Kuechly's competitiveness spilled over into fishing. He labeled that the "good, the bad and the ugly of Luke" as he recalled a fishing trip to Tom's parents' home in Florida.

"There is a lake right outside of their place," Tom said at the time. "John and Luke were out fishing. Luke came in, then stood at the window and watched what was going on outside. Pretty soon he says, 'I'm going back out to go fishing.' My dad said, 'What's that all about?' I said, 'He's got to make sure he stays ahead of John.'"

Not perfect
Kuechly had a perfect line on sacking Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott in the opener.

He missed.

Defensive end Wes Horton got the sack.

"I was right there," Kuechly said almost defiantly. "I just have to make it."

Kuechly's goal this season is to improve as a pass-rusher. He's the only player in the NFL with at least five forced fumbles, 10 sacks and 15 interceptions since 2012, but he has never had more than three sacks in a season (2014) and he has only 4.5 the past three seasons combined.

Part of that is because Kuechly drops into coverage far more than he blitzes. Another reason is he's so busy making tackles.

His next tackle -- the Panthers have credited him with 953 from coaches' film -- will move Kuechly past Mike Minter into second place behind Thomas Davis (1,174) for the team's all-time lead, and that's in just over seven seasons.

"His suddenness is just incredible," Lewis said.